PyAnalySeries provides a simple and efficient way to smooth time
series data.
Filtering is applied in the X-domain, using a centered moving
average based on a convolution with a square window.
Each value is replaced by the average of its neighboring
points.
This reduces high-frequency variability while preserving the main trends of
the signal.
Other X-domain filtering methods could be implemented if needed.
Let’s return to our practical example.
The “ PercAndes ” record remains slightly noisy, even after
resampling at 0.
2 5 thousand years.
We therefore apply a smoothing average to improve readability.
Select the record, then go to Process and choose “
Define Smoothing Average ”.
You can test different window sizes depending on the level
of smoothing required.
Here, we use a 5-point running average.
Given the 0.
2 5 thousand years sampling, this corresponds to a smoothing
window of 1 thousand years.
Most of the high-frequency variability is effectively removed, while preserving
the main trends of the signal.
You can then save the filtered series and the filter
for later reuse on other series.
You can also hover over the item ID to display
its history.